Every fortnight when I make my mail flight up to Ambler Bay, I look forward to visiting old Hildie. All the folks up at Ambler are fine by me, but when I deliver Hildie's mail, I'm not just doing my job - I'm exercising a genuine pleasure. 
Hildie keeps a moonshine still, way back in the pine trees of her 50-acre spread. This trip, though, Hildie was so overwrought she forgot her manners and pounced on the mail packet without offering me a drink. She found the envelope from the photo lab in Anchorage and ripped it open, saying, 
"Now those guys'll have to believe me."
As she had predicted, the picture showed a body lying in the snow, beyond the chain-link fence that the oil company had erected around its drilling site. Hildie was right about something else, too. This was a genuine mystery. 
The woman was lying between two great pines in the middle of an expanse of fresh snow. There were no tracks leading to her body, save the pockmarks of a prowling dog and the holes made by snow fallen from the branches above. There was no snow on the woman, not even a dusting, so the only way she could have got there was if she had fallen from the sky.
Yet this wasn't as far-fetched as it might sound. The arrival of the oil company had also brought eco-warriors up from Seattle. The activists were intent on scaling the trees around the drilling site and this woman was likely one of them, a protester who had fallen from her perch. If that cleared up half the mystery, it didn't explain the rest of Hildie's story.
Hildie is in her 70s and none too lissom. Rather than scrape through a gap in the chain-link fence to get to the body, she went home to radio for help. Unfortunately, she was out of methanol and her generator was dry, so the radio wouldn't work. I told her she should have filled the generator with moonshine, and she said she wished she had thought of that - the woman might still be alive. Instead, she locked up her dog, Betsy, and drove to the sheriff's office in Ambler, taking the photo on the way. 
By the time the sheriff and Hildie returned to the site, the body was gone and a fresh fall of snow left no traces as to how she might have disappeared. With no body, there was no mystery. As the sheriff said at the time, who knew but the woman hadn't simply got up and wandered away? Now I had seen Hildie's photographs, I knew this was impossible. Dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt, the woman would have died of hypothermia in half an hour.
Hildie asked, "Do you recognise her?"
I couldn't say I did, but these eco-warriors prefer to travel by sea rather than take my mail flight up from Anchorage. The boys who came with me were Hildie's sworn enemies: oilmen. On this trip, I had flown out 10 big guys; no doubt hired to cut the eco-warriors out of the trees and maybe throw a scare into them. I apologised to Hildie for this, but she knows I don't get to pick and choose my passengers.
Hildie had lived the simple life in Ambler for more than 40 years and she had no intention of selling up. She was even doing her bit for the protesters, allowing them to set up a base camp on her land. When I saw their camp on my last trip, I thought, that makes sense of the letters Hildie had been receiving from Seattle over the past year. She and the eco-warriors may have been in cahoots but Hildie was in a minority of one around Ambler. Everyone else would have welcomed an offer from the oil company - but only Hildie owned land in the right vicinity.
After I left Hildie, I recognised one of the protesters, a youngster named Ben Abbott. I still felt guilty for flying up the oil company toughs, so I said hello and warned him the compound fence had been strengthened. It wouldn't be so easy for him to break in and scale the trees. In Hildie's photograph, the fence had been in poor shape, with holes cut out and a few strands of colourful nylon thread snagged on the wire where a protester must have snuck through. Ben thanked me for the information but told me that he and his partner planned to make rope walkways so they could flit from tree to tree. I wished him good luck, and worried that we might see another body on the ground before springtime.
As we were talking, Betsy bounded up and jumped all over Ben. He had clearly made a firm friend. Ben laughed, telling me that he had no idea what kind of reception he would get up in Ambler, but Betsy had made the trip worthwhile. As Hildie always said, Betsy was the smartest dog in the world.
Once the sheriff saw Hildie's picture, he wasted no time calling in Frank Tanner, the watchman for the oil company. It wasn't the sheriff's style to move fast, but what I didn't know until I inveigled my way into his office was that he already had a body. The dead woman had been found in a ravine on the far side of Ambler, about 30 miles from the drilling site, which was no distance in such a spread-out community. There was no doubt that this was the woman in Hildie's photograph: she was wearing the same dark jeans and sweats. The sheriff showed Tanner the picture and told him, "This has to be embarrassing, Frank - a dead woman on your shift." Tanner claimed he didn't know a thing but the sheriff threw a curve-ball and said he'd found Frank's tyre tracks around the ravine. There had been more than two feet of snow since the photo was taken, but Tanner was none too bright, and soon admitted to dumping the body. But he swore blind he had not killed her. Like the sheriff said, he was just saving himself and the oil company the grief of a dead eco-warrior on the site. Later, I asked the sheriff if he believed Tanner's story. The sheriff shrugged, but said once he got the forensic report, he would call the witnesses together and figure out the story.
Things move slowly in Ambler. I flew the woman's body down to Anchorage for the autopsy and I was back by the time the sheriff got the results. Tanner was still in the sheriff's cell but the forensic report went some way to supporting his story: the woman had died of hypothermia, not trauma. She was about 40 years old and part Yupik, the native tribe in those parts. The Yupik claimed no one from their tribe was missing. I figured, if none of them knew the dead woman, maybe she was the illegitimate daughter of one of the old boys. The sheriff thought that sounded right.
The sheriff had four possible witnesses. Frank Tanner, of course. Ben Abbott and the other eco-warrior, his girlfriend, Flossie Jones. And finally, old Hildie. I was there, too, and I had to admire the professional set-up. The sheriff had wired up a projector so that we all sat in the half-light, looking at Hildie's photograph blown up on the office wall. Now I saw the photograph so big, I wondered about the faint swirling pattern in the snow, leading away from the woman's body. Hildie was more excited by the tail end of a rope, visible in one of the trees. Flossie and Ben had claimed they had made a start scaling a tree before the weather drove them back to camp. When Hildie said she had seen Frank Tanner cutting down the ropes the next day, he had called her a liar. The photograph clearly showed that Tanner was the liar.
Ben asked the sheriff if the woman showed signs of having fallen from a height. The sheriff said there was nothing conclusive: she had cuts and bruises but no broken bones. Hildie pointed out that the snow was deep enough to have cushioned a fall. Flossie wondered if the dead woman could have got her injuries falling through the brambles into the ravine where she had been found. The sheriff asked how she knew about the brambles, but the girl refused to be trapped: she'd gone along to look at the crime scene after the news came out. The sheriff seemed to accept this. At any rate, he told us that the postmortem proved the woman was alive when she got her cuts and grazes and dead before she entered the ravine.
What else could he tell us? The dead woman had sailed up from Seattle on a fishing boat. Ben and Flossie were adamant they had never seen her before, but the sheriff said she fitted the eco-warrior profile: she had arrests for drink, drugs and vagrancy. This time, he got a reaction ... from Hildie. She told the sheriff he ought to be ashamed of himself, casting aspersions on two good kids. Hildie so identified with the eco-warriors, she had taken to dressing like them, though her jacket was a lurid, tatty ski jacket rather than the mountaineering jackets the kids could afford. Once the sheriff had calmed everyone down, he admitted that the crew of the fishing boat reported that the dead woman sounded more like a prospector than a protester: prowling the deck in all weathers, wrapped in an old pink anorak as she bragged about a fortune waiting for her in Ambler. The crewmen wrote her off as a fantasist, a damaged woman who was getting on in life and getting desperate.
I said, "However she died, she must have been drunk, stumbling around in the snow or falling out of trees."
"I don't know if she was drunk," the sheriff replied. "I can tell you she was blind. And that's the problem. I think we've got a murder inquiry on our hands."
I nodded sadly. "I think so too, sheriff."